# CHEME-5660-TakeHomePrelim-3-Fall-2023
`THP3/PD1` aims to familiarize students with computing the single index models and minimum variance portfolios with combinations of risky assets and q risk-free investment. These calculations will also give students an initial portfolio for the course project.

### Team
`THP3/PD1` should be done with your project team. You may discuss the problems with other teams, but your team must submit your work.

## Problem Statement
We've downloaded the daily open-high-low-close (OHLC) values for approximately 500 stocks from the S&P 500 index, along with the `SPY ETF` that tracks the S&P 500 index and a few other `ETFs`. Your tasks are to:

* `Task 1`: Compute the single index model for each asset in the `dataset` using the `Runme-4-SIMs-Soln.jl` script. This script will save the single index models into a [JLD2](https://github.com/JuliaIO/JLD2.jl) file in the `data` subdirectory. You'll use this file in the subsequent tasks.
    * `TODO`: Load the file generated by the `SIMs` calculation, ensure you understand the data structure, and use this data to answer the questions in the `THP3/PD1` assignment.

* `Task 2`: Compute the minimum variance portfolio for the `tickers of your choosing` using the `Runme-4-EfficientFrontier-Soln.jl` script. This script will save the minimum variance portfolio into a [JLD2](https://github.com/JuliaIO/JLD2.jl) file in the `data` subdirectory. You'll use this file in the subsequent tasks.
    * `TODO`: Load the file generated by the `minimum variance portfolio` calculation; ensure you understand the data structure and how to use this data.

*  `Task 3`: Compute the minimum variance portfolio for the `tickers of your choosing` with a `risk-free asset` using the `Runme-4-CapitalAllocationLine-Soln.jl` script. This script will save the minimum variance portfolio with risky and risk-free assets into a [JLD2](https://github.com/JuliaIO/JLD2.jl) file in the `data` subdirectory. You'll use this file in the subsequent tasks.
    * `TODO`: Load the file generated by the `minimum variance portfolio` with a `risk-free-asset` calculation; make sure you understand the data structure and how to use this data.

* `Task 4`: Plot the `efficient frontier` for the `tickers of your choosing` using the `Plotme-EfficientFrontier.jl` script. This script will save the efficient frontier figure as a `PDF` file in the `figs` subdirectory. You can use this figure in your project report if desired.
    * `TODO`: Feel free to customize the generated figure to your liking.

* `Task 5`: Plot the `capital allocation line` for the `tickers of your choosing` using the `Plotme-CapitalAllocationLine.jl` script. This script will save the capital allocation line figure as a `PDF` file in the `figs` subdirectory. You can use this figure in your project report if desired.
    * `TODO`: Feel free to customize the generated figure to your liking.

## Implementation
Each script has a `main(...)` method that executes the script’s logic. The `main(...)` methods are complete, but feel free to inspect them to see how they work. The `main(...)` methods call other methods, and all codes (including the `NLP` calculations are included in the `src`` subdirectory. 

To execute the simulation, Start `Julia` from the command line in a VSCode terminal window (in the directory where the `Runme-....jl` file is located):

```zsh
julia --project=.
```

Once the Julia REPL starts, execute the following command:

```julia
include("<script name goes here>.jl")
```

This will run the `main(...)` method and save the simulation results to a file or make a plot, depending on the script.

### Expected results
I've included sample files generated from the scripts in the `data` and `figs` subdirectories. You can use these files to check your work.

## Submission
Once complete, you can submit your assignment by checking in your code to your local git repository and pushing your changes to the remote repository. All can be done with a few clicks in the [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com) application. 

## Grading and deadlines
The grading rubric for this assignment is binary (since it's a component of the larger project). 
* You will receive full credit (a score of `1`) if your team completes the tasks using a draft portfolio that is not the test example included. Don't worry; you can change which assets are included or which asset types you use, e.g., `options` later.
* You will receive a score of `0` if your team does not complete the tasks or if you use the test example portfolio included in the scripts.
* The deadline for this assignment is `11:59 PM` on `Friday, December 1, 2023`. 
